First get the data by selecting the excel file
Then before loading data we will transform it into clean data 

Data Cleaning required in Project there are three steps:
(A)Fix Data Types:

Change Join_Date and Churn_Date to the Date type.
Change Monthly_Charge and Watching_Hours_Per_Week to Decimal Number.
Change Customer_Satisfaction to Whole Number.

(B)Handling Missing Values in Power Query
Open Power Query Editor:

In Power BI Desktop, click on the "Transform Data" button to open the Power Query Editor.
Replace Missing Values:

For each column where you want to handle missing values, follow these steps:
A. Replace Nulls in the Age Column with the Average Age
Calculate the Average Age:

In the Power Query Editor, go to the "Home" tab.
Click on "Transform" and then "Statistics."
Select "Average" while the Age column is selected. This will create a new step in the "Applied Steps" pane that calculates the average age.
Replace Nulls:

Select the Age column.
Right-click on the column header and choose "Replace Values."
In the dialog that appears:
Set "Value to Find" as null.
Set "Replace With" as the average age you calculated (you can copy the average value from the previous step).
Click "OK."
B. Replace Nulls in the WatchingHoursPerWeek Column with the Median
Calculate the Median:

Select the WatchingHoursPerWeek column.
Go to the "Transform" tab, click on "Statistics," and select "Median." This will create a new step that calculates the median.
Replace Nulls:

Select the WatchingHoursPerWeek column.
Right-click on the column header and choose "Replace Values."
In the dialog:
Set "Value to Find" as null.
Set "Replace With" as the median value you calculated.
Click "OK."
C. Replace Nulls in the CustomerSatisfaction Column with the Mode
Calculate the Mode:

Unfortunately, Power Query does not have a built-in function for mode. However, you can find the mode manually:
Go to the "Home" tab, click on "Advanced Editor," and add a step to group by CustomerSatisfaction and count occurrences.
Use the following M code to create a new table that counts occurrences:
ModeTable = Table.Group(YourTable, {"CustomerSatisfaction"}, {{"Count", each Table.RowCount(_), Int64.Type}})
Sort this new table by Count in descending order to find the mode.
Replace Nulls:

Once you have the mode value, select the CustomerSatisfaction column.
Right-click on the column header and choose "Replace Values."
In the dialog:
Set "Value to Find" as null.
Set "Replace With" as the mode value you calculated.
Click "OK."
D. Replace Nulls in the DeviceType Column with "Unknown"
Replace Nulls:
Select the DeviceType column.
Right-click on the column header and choose "Replace Values."
In the dialog:
Set "Value to Find" as null.
Set "Replace With" as "Unknown".
Click "OK."
Final Steps
Review Changes:

After replacing the null values, review the changes in the "Applied Steps" pane to ensure everything looks correct.
Close and Apply:

Once you are satisfied with the changes, click on "Close & Apply" in the Home tab to load the cleaned data back into Power BI.



Churn Overview Dashboard:
now we will do visualization part in power bi :

(1)Total Churned Customers:
Description: Display the total number of churned customers (which is essentially the count of all records in your dataset).
How to Create:
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the Card visual.
Drag the CustomerID field into the "Values" area. This will count the total number of churned customers.

(2)Average Monthly Charge:
Description: Show the average monthly charge of churned customers.
How to Create:
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the Card visual.
Drag the MonthlyCharge field into the "Values" area. Power BI will automatically calculate the average.

(3)Average Customer Rating:
Description: Display the average customer satisfaction score of churned customers.
How to Create:
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the Card visual.
Drag the CustomerSatisfaction field into the "Values" area. Power BI will automatically calculate the average.

(4) slicer
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the slicer visual.
Drag the JoinDate field into the "Axis" area.
Drag the CustomerID field into the "Values" area. This will count the number of customers.

(5) slicer
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the slicer visual.
Drag the Age field into the "Axis" area.
Drag the CustomerID field into the "Values" area. This will count the number of customers.


(6) Donut Chart
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the Donut Chart visual.
Drag the ChurnedTo field into the "Values" area. This will count the number of customers who churned to each competitor.
Optionally, you can drag the ChurnedTo field into the "Legend" area to label the segments.
Customer Segmentation Analysis

(7) Stacked Bar Chart
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the Stacked Bar Chart visual.
Drag the SubscriptionPlan field into the "Axis" area.
Drag the CustomerID field into the "Values" area. This will count the number of customers.
To differentiate between churned and active customers, use the "Legend" area:
If you have a column that indicates whether a customer is churned or active, drag that column into the "Legend" area.

(8) Clustered Column Chart
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the Clustered Column Chart visual.
Create age groups if you haven't already. You can do this in Power Query by creating a new column for age groups (e.g., 18–25, 26–35, etc.).
Drag the new age group column into the "Axis" area.
Drag the CustomerID field into the "Values" area. This will count the number of customers.
Use the "Legend" area to differentiate between churned and retained customers.

(9) Tree Map
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the Tree Map visual.
Drag the Country field into the "Group" area.
Drag the CustomerID field into the "Values" area. This will count the number of customers by country.
Behavioral Analysis

(10) Scatter Plot
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the Scatter Chart visual.
Drag the WatchingHoursPerWeek field into the "X-Axis" area.
Drag the CustomerSatisfaction field into the "Y-Axis" area.
Optionally, you can use the "Details" area to add CustomerID to see individual data points.

(11) Map
In the "Visualizations" pane, select the Matrix visual.
Drag the Country field into the location area.
Drag the WatchingHoursPerWeek field into the legend area.

Now we have completed makling the dashboard also add some logos in title in side menu bar with slicers made
Also with title logo give the title on top of dashboard "Netflix Churn Analysis Dashboard 2024"

Shortcomings Identified:

Engagement:
Low engagement (low viewing hours) correlates with higher churn.

Customer Support and Satisfaction:
Low satisfaction ratings indicate possible issues with support, platform usability, or perceived value.

low advertising:
Low advertuising in many countries which effect in decreasing of watching hours per week in many countries.

analyzing competitor:
Analysing amazon prime videos data what plus points they have and working on that.

Content Gap:
Customers switching to competitors indicates dissatisfaction with Netflix's exclusive or trending content.




Action Plan for 2024 and 2025
1. Content Strategy
Action: Invest in diverse and high-quality content, including regional hits, trending genres, and blockbuster movies.
Execution: Collaborate with local creators and acquire exclusive rights for in-demand shows and movies.
Impact: Retain customers drawn to competitors' exclusive content.
2. Pricing and Bundling
Action: Introduce more flexible plans, promotional offers, and bundles (e.g., family or regional discounts).
Execution: Provide annual plans at discounted rates or partner with ISPs for bundled offers.
Impact: Reduce churn among price-sensitive customers.
3. Enhance Engagement
Action: Use personalized recommendations and notifications to increase viewing hours.
Execution: Leverage AI algorithms to suggest content based on past behavior and trends.
Impact: Boost engagement and customer satisfaction.
4. Regional Customization
Action: Cater to regional preferences by offering language-specific content and promotions tailored to local markets.
Execution: Monitor regional trends and competitors to align strategies.
Impact: Reduce churn in high-risk regions.
5. Customer Retention Programs
Action: Launch loyalty programs offering rewards like free months or exclusive access.
Execution: Reward long-term customers or those upgrading plans.
Impact: Increase retention among loyal customers.
6. Device Experience Improvement
Action: Improve the viewing experience across all devices, especially mobile.
Execution: Enhance app performance and introduce features like offline downloads or adaptive streaming.
Impact: Retain customers on mobile and lower-tier plans.
7. Proactive Churn Prevention
Action: Monitor early churn indicators (e.g., declining viewing hours) and intervene with personalized offers.
Execution: Send targeted emails or in-app messages to at-risk customers.
Impact: Reduce churn by re-engaging users.
8. Improve Customer Support
Action: Offer faster and more effective customer support, including live chat and issue resolution.
Execution: Increase customer support availability during peak times or after major updates.
Impact: Improve satisfaction ratings and reduce churn.




Expected Outcome in coming years:
By addressing content gaps, improving engagement, and targeting high-risk customers with tailored strategies, Netflix can:

Reduce churn by 15–20% in 2024 and 2025.
Increase customer satisfaction and loyalty.
Strengthen its competitive edge in the OTT market.


